Welcome back in the previous we do we looked at the Greeks don't try catch finally and things like that
and in this we do let's focus on the hierarchy of exception handling classes.
There are a lot of knowledges which are used around the exception handling classes terrible exception
runtime exception check exception unchecked exception.
Oh my God.
So so many things that we would want to clarify during this specific review.
So let's start with the hierarchy of exception handling classes at the top of the Exception handling
or the error handling hierarchy is terrible.
So Trouble is the top most class and there are two types of important classes which extend trouble.
One is error.
The other one is exception.
So it really is basically anything that you cannot handle anything that programmer can never be able
to handle.
That's an error.
So basically you can think of things like out of memory.
If JVM runs out of memory there isn't I think a programmer can do about it.
So those kind of things are called errors.
Exceptions are those things that programmers can do something about.
I'm trying to read a file and file is not found.
So you can probably retry or you can probably try for another file or something of that.
And those are the things which are called exceptions.
Exceptions again are classified into two types.
One is check the exceptions and unchecked exceptions.
Any method that is throwing an exception in Java has two options.
Either it can say I'm doing a checked exception or an unchecked exception or method will throw a check
the exception when it wants the calling method which are method is calling that method.
It wants that method to know that I am throwing an exception.
Do something about it.
So if I want the calling method to try and handle this exception or do something about this exception
or to know about this exception then I would use something called a check exception.
Exceptions are when I'm throwing an exception but I'm not sure if the calling method would be able to
do anything about it.
I don't really want the calling method to mandate really handle that exception in those kinds of scenarios.
I would throw in and check the exception.
So when a trillion check the exception then who is calling me needs to definitely handle that exception
or throw it when entering an unchecked exception.
Then the calling method does not need to know and does not need to do anything about that exception.
We talked about Roble we said that two kinds of things at the highest level.
Error exception error is those things which the programmer can do nothing about.
So out of memory exception exceptions are those things which are things which a programmer might be
able to do something about.
And exceptions are of two types that we talked about Check the exception and and check the exception.
These things take the exception and unchecked exceptions are not really classes in Java.
So they are not really Java classes.
Basically the way it works is there is something called runtime exception to runtime exception again
extends exception any exception that extends runtime exception is an unchecked exception.
So if you look at it here I am extending an exception.
It's an exception.
So anything which extends runtime exception or a class that extends runtime exception is unchecked exception
any exception class which does not extend runtime exception but extends exception directly.
Check the exception.
So if I want my method in my exception to be definitely handled by the methods which are calling me
then I would create a check exception to what I would do is I would directly extend exception or extend
the class which is extending exception any exception which is not in the runtime exception hierarchy
is a check exception and any exception which is in the runtime exception hierarchy of classes ease up
and check the exception.
So that's at a high level I mean to summarize the chignon unchecked exception.
Part of it.
It's basically if you want to throw if you want your calling method to handle an exception to mandatorily
handle the exception that you are drawing then you would throw a check exception.
You can create a checked exception by directly extending exception or extending something which is already
extended exception other than the runtime exception.
But if I don't want the calling method do anything about the exceptions that I'm throwing the then i
would actually extend a runtime exception or one of the things that extends an exception and then I
would be called an exception since we now understand the basic concept.
A lot of these questions would be very simple to answer.
What is the difference between error and exception stack overflow out of memory.
All these are things which an programmer cannot do anything about these errors.
Exception is when the program can handle the exception.
What is the difference between checked exception and checked exception runtime exception and classes
that extend an exception are called unchecked exceptions.
What are unchecked exceptions that exception clauses which do not fit the definition to anything which
is not an exception or extending an exception but an exception then that check the exception.